docs: updates secrets with a spaceid example (#598)
FlatFilers/Guides: guides/secrets.mdx

---
title: "Share secrets"
description: "Learn how to securely use credentials in listeners."
icon: "user-secret"
---

With Secrets you can securely share credentials with listener implementations
without developers explicitly knowing the secret values upfront. Secret values
are set in the user interface, but retrieved via the SDK or
[API](https://reference.flatfile.com/docs/api/385183f8a52af-list-all-secrets-for-an-environment-or-environment-space).

## Overview

### Creating Secrets

Secrets in Flatfile, defined as Name/Value pairs, are securely stored and associated

> with an Environment or Space. Spaces will inherit the Secrets from their respective

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with an Environment or a Space. Spaces will inherit Secrets from their respective
```

> Environment, and you can additionally override the Environment Secret to a specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Environment but you may choose to override any Environment Secret
```

> value for each specific space. To define Secrets shared with every Space in an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for a given Space. To define Secrets shared with every Space in an
```

> Envrionment, navigate to the "Developer Settings" screen for that environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Environment, navigate to the "Developer Settings" screen for that environment.
```

> To override an environment value, navigate to the specific Space and select "Secrets"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To override an Environment value, navigate to the specific Space and select "Secrets"
```

in the left navigation.

> A note on security: while all of Flatfile data employs encryption during transit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A note on security: while Flatfile encrypts all data, both during transit and
```

> at rest in our datastore, Secrets adds an additional layer of protection on demand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at rest in our datastore, Secrets have an additional layer of protection. Secrets are encrypted/decrypted on demand
```

> encrypting/decrypting the values using an unique set of keys. As such a potential

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using a unique set of keys. As such, a potential
```

> intruder would need not only access to the plaintext datastore, but also these

Reviewer: From plaintext I infer Flatfile data is not encrypted at rest, which seems to contradict our earlier claim?

Author: It's a hypothetical. Not only would the intruder need to capture a plaintext copy of the datastore, but in the decrypted version the secrets are still encrypted with yet another key pair.

extra keys to decrypt and compromise these sensitive values.

### Consuming Secrets

> While Secrets are defined in administrative interfaces for Environments, and Spaces,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While Secrets are defined in administrative interfaces for Environments and Spaces,
```

> respectively, they are designed to be consumed by Listeners. While it might be trivia

Reviewer: ```suggestion
respectively, they are designed to be consumed by Listeners. While it might be trivial
```

> to pass in secret values through the environment variables with a self-hosted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to pass in secret values through environment variables in a self-hosted
```

Listener, with a Flatfile hosted Agent based Listener one must use the Secrets
features. See Usage below for some example consumer patterns.

## Usage Examples

### Sensitive Credentials

The principal utility of Secrets lies in securely storing sensitive credentials/tokens
within an Environment/Space for connecting Listeners to third-party APIs. For
instance, you might store a secret named `SLACK_TOKEN` with a value of
`xoxb-e5b7206ccac446048a8a52b703dbb4b9`, allowing you to communicate with a
Slack bot each time a custom action is triggered.

#### Example Listener

In this example, we use an `event.secrets` call to pull a sensitive Slack token
for use within a listener context. We then can use the credential to post a
message to Slack.

```jsx
listener.on("**", async (event) => {
  const tok = await event.secrets("SLACK_TOKEN");
  slack = new Slack(tok);
  slack.api(
    "chat.postMessage",
    {
      text: "Flatfile event received!",
      channel: "#integration-flatfile",
    },
    function (err, response) {
      console.log(response || err);
    }
  );
});
```

#### Example using optional EnvironmentId or SpaceId

> the `options` parameter for the secrets fetch function allows optionally choosing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `options` parameter for the secrets fetch function allows optionally choosing
```

> a different Environment or Space than the event occurred within. This is useful

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a different Environment or Space than the event occurred within. 
```
